look at that we're back in the workshop
just the other day I picked up this
camera it's a Nikon d70 from a local
photography sale it was extremely cheap
and I had no idea if it worked or not
and I had for a couple days and finally
got to test it out with the battery and
it seemed to work fine except it would
not take pictures reliably if you would
sit here and like hit the shutter button
like one out of every 50 times you would
finally get it to shoot and then you
could if you like pressed it on the
corner just right sometimes it would
shoot and if you'd like replicated that
it would shoot again and again and again
and then you'd lose your spot and it
would stop shooting in for a while it
was just impossible to use obviously and
I figured it was literally just that
switch because there's a little bit of a
dent here on the button seems like it
might have gotten dropped and also the
actual power switch is a little bit
stiff for some reason so but anyway I
was going to replace the switch the
little micro switch in there which
involved taking out a lot of screws
basically every single side of this
comes off and then the bottom and then
finally after unsoldering
some wires to the flash and some some
other ground wires over here you could
take this top part off and get to that
switch so unfortunately I did not make a
video about that so if you stay tuned I
will show you exactly what I did on this
thing this is an old Olympus piece of
crap and it just so happens to have a
very similar switch so I will be showing
you what I did on this one on this one
okay here it is
this is the switch that I'm talking
about and I assume this one's the same
as the other one where yeah I do it will
be you press on the switch halfway and
it clicks a little bit and that's that's
tells the camera to focus and then you
click it the rest of the way and you get
a second click so and which takes the
picture obviously make sure there's no
crazy capacitor I want to shock my cell
phone I would assume this cameras deep
discharge by now but yeah
so looking at the switch sorry over here
you will see it has a little bit of a
tab on this side as well as the other
side but you can't see it quite as well
and what we can do is literally peel
this switch open the reason why you
would want to do this is if you think
the switch is damaged or dirty or
something like that so there I've popped
it open I'm gonna let it fall open very
carefully okay obviously if you lose any
of these parts you're screwed you switch
so here put that there and I'll put this
on my finger we've got this is one one
of the plates on the inside which sits
like this one sits like this and once
it's like this so when you press down
the halfway one switch this little plate
makes contact with that little plate and
then when you push down all the way that
little plate makes contact at the bottom
of the switch
this other little place is gonna come
out too but basically the moral of the
story here is you can there's that and
there's also a little uh I'll just leave
that part in their little disk you can't
actually dismantle these switches and
sit and clean them up the best you can
scrape scrape away any oxidation and
sometimes you can get them to work again
without having to not only find a
replacement switch which is relatively
easy but if you get an actual
replacement part they're probably gonna
charge a lot of money for it
I think the replacements which is just
this little switch here for the d70 on
ebay was over five bucks just for that
tiny little thing and I didn't want to
didn't want to put too much money into
the camera especially since I wasn't
positive if that was the problem yet but
anyway so what I did on the d70 over
there is took the switch part just like
this and then I kind of cleaned away
this this film that was on one of the
switches I think it had gotten some
moisture damage on the bottom the bottom
plate thing and then which I had to
slowly scrape away all that little crap
on there and all the little crap on
there and then very carefully as took
part took forever put these pieces back
in there the right directions I already
lost one I don't know where it went
anyway don't lose the part I don't care
about this camera it's toast anyway yeah
slowly put it all back together
obviously you want to pay attention to
which way it went together and then you
might have to bend this telephones
ringing Ben this this is the little
cover then the tab back closed
and just kind of pop it on there your
switch will be as good as new
hopefully obviously this one's not as
good as new visits missing parts now
what that's that's what I did and now it
works just fine
except my battery is dead in it so now
won't take a picture but it took a
picture of that first time that's what
counts
so trust me it works I've shot hundreds
of shots with it now and it's barking
perfectly so my cheap little project
cost me absolutely nothing to repair
except for my time and yeah now I've got
another body around I'll probably give
this one of my father so I said for
today take it easy